# Cue
The Cue repo contains code for a options screener utilizing unusual options activity data from Unusual Whales.  It also contains code to parse historical unusual options activity data and pick out desired data (manually copied) from realtime unusual options activity data, historical and realtime data retrieved from ***Unusual Whales***.

The goal is to attempt to find commonalities with successful unusual options activity and determine the success rate of realtime unusual options activity.

Historical unusual options activity data can be retrieved from the [Unusual Whales Analytics](https://unusualwhales.com/analytics) page.  Realtime unusual options activity data can be retrieved from the [Unusual Whales Alerts](https://unusualwhales.com/alerts) page (*Unusual Whales account required*).

When visiting the [Unusual Whales Analytics](https://unusualwhales.com/analytics) page, historical unusual options activity data is only provided for the ***June 2020 - August 2021*** date range.  Future months only provide a recap.  *Due to the lack of support of historical unusual options activity data, this project has been abondened*.

## Quick Links
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Directories](#directories)
  - [data](#data)
  - [docs](#docs)
  - [scripts](#scripts)
  - [src](#src)
- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Startup](#startup)
  - [Shutdown](#shutdown)

----------------------------------

## Requirements
- Docker
- PowerShell 7.2.0 (or higher)
  - PowerShell is only required if utilizing the support scripts located in ***/scripts***

----------------------------------

## Directories
### **data**
This directory will contain all desired data.

By default, the project is setup to create a volume to store the database data in the ***/data/database*** directory and ignore this directory to avoid publishing excessive data.  This can be updated in the ***docker-compose*** file being utilized for the ***mongodb*** service.

The ***historical-alerts*** child directory can be utilized to store the [historical unusual options activity data](https://unusualwhales.com/analytics) provided by Unusual Whales and the parsed data generated by the [write-historical script](/scripts/historical/write-historical.ps1).

The ***options-recap*** child directory can be utilized to store the stored data in the ***mondodb*** service and the excel worksheets used to help analyze historical and realtime unusual options activity data.

The ***realtime-alerts*** child directory can be utilized to store the [realtime unusual options activity data](https://unusualwhales.com/alerts) provided by Unusual Whales and the parsed data generated by the [write-realtime script](/scripts/realtime/write-realtime.ps1).

### **docs**
This directory will contain miscelenous documents that was utilized through the development and the usage of the options screener.

### **scripts**
This directory contains the support scripts to utilize when writing, deleting and retrieving parsed historical and realtime unusual options data activity.  View the [historical scripts README](/scripts/historical/README.md) and the [realtime scripts README](/scripts/realtime/README.md) for the usage of the support scripts.

### **src**
This directory contains the code for the services that run the options screener.  View the [src README](/src/README.md) to view an overview of source structure.

----------------------------------

## Project Overview
### **Setup**
- Clone the repository
- Navigate to the ***Cue*** directory
- Create a ***.env*** file
  - Use the ***.env.template*** file as a template
- In the ***.env*** file, modify the following fields
  - **PROXY_PORT**=***Proxy server port. Ex. 3001***
  - **DB_STORE_HOSTNAME**=***DB Store server hostname. Ex. db-store***
  - **DB_STORE_PORT**=***DB Store server port. Ex. 3003***
  - **DATABASE_URI**=***Database URI. Ex. mongodb://mongodb:27017/alerts***
  - **HISTORICAL_SERVER_HOSTNAME**=***Historical server hostname. Ex. historical***
  - **HISTORICAL_SERVER_PORT**=***Historical server port. Ex. 3004***
  - **REALTIME_SERVER_HOSTNAME**=***Realtime server hostname. Ex. realtime***
  - **REALTIME_SERVER_PORT**=***Realtime server port. Ex. 3005***

Along with the docker compose setup, there are also environment variables for the historical and realtime scripts.  View the [historical README](/scripts/historical/README.md) and [realtime README](/scripts/realtime/README.md) to view the usage of these variables.

### **Startup**
- Navigate to the ***Cue*** directory
- Execute the following command to build the **Docker** images and startup the containers
  - Interactive process: ***docker-compose up --build***
  - Detached from the process: ***docker-compose up -d --build***
- View logs and verify no startup errors appear

### **Shutdown**
- Navigate to the ***Cue*** directory
- Execute the following command to stop the **Docker** containers
  - ***docker-compose down***